You've learned how to implement
exponentially weighted averages.
There's one technical detail
called bias correction that
can make your computation of
these averages more accurate.
Let's see how that works.
In the previous video,
you saw this figure
for Beta equals 0.9,
this figure for a
Beta equals 0.98.
But it turns out that if you
implement the formula
as written here,
you won't actually get
the green curve when
Beta equals 0.98,
you actually get the
purple curve here.
You notice that the purple
curve starts off really low.
Let's see how to fix that.
When implementing
a moving average,
you initialize it
with V_0 equals 0,
and then V_1 is equal to
0.98 V_0 plus 0.02 Theta 1.
But V_0 is equal to 0,
so that term just goes away.
So V_1 is just 0.02
times Theta 1.
That's why if the first
day's temperature is,
say, 40 degrees Fahrenheit,
then V_1 will be 0.02 times 40,
which is 0.8, so you get a
much lower value down here.
That's not a very good estimate
of the first day's temperature.
V_2 will be 0.98 times V_1
plus 0.02 times Theta 2.
If you plug in V_1,
which is this down here,
and multiply it out,
then you find that V_2
is actually equal to
0.98 times 0.02
times Theta 1 plus
0.02 times Theta 2 and that's
0.0196 Theta 1
plus 0.02 Theta 2.
Assuming Theta 1 and Theta
2 are positive numbers.
When you compute this,
V_2 will be much less
than Theta 1 or Theta 2,
so V_2 isn't a
very good estimate
of the first two days
temperature of the year.
It turns out that
there's a way to
modify this estimate that
makes it much better,
that makes it more accurate,
especially during this initial
phase of your estimate.
Instead of taking
V_t, take V_t divided
by 1 minus Beta to
the power of t,
where t is the current
day that you're on.
Let's take a concrete example.
When t is equal to 2,
1 minus Beta to the power of
t is 1 minus 0.98 squared.
It turns out that is 0.0396.
Your estimate of the
temperature on day 2
becomes V_2 divided by 0.0396,
and this is going to be 0.0196
times Theta 1 plus 0.02 Theta 2.
You notice that these two things
act as denominator, 0.0396.
This becomes a weighted
average of Theta 1 and
Theta 2 and this
removes this bias.
You notice that as
t becomes large,
Beta to the t will approach 0,
which is why when
t is large enough,
the bias correction makes
almost no difference.
This is why when t is large,
the purple line and the green
line pretty much overlap.
But during this initial
phase of learning,
when you're still warming
up your estimates,
bias correction can help you
obtain a better estimate
of the temperature.
This is bias correction
that helps you
go from the purple line
to the green line.
In machine learning, for
most implementations
of the exponentially
weighted average,
people don't often
bother to implement
bias corrections because
most people would
rather just weigh
that initial period
and have a slightly more biased
assessment and then
go from there.
But we are concerned about
the bias during
this initial phase,
while your exponentially
weighted moving average
is warming up,
then bias correction can help
you get a better
estimate early on.
With that, you now know how to
implement exponentially
weighted moving averages.
Let's go on and
use this to build
some better optimization
algorithms.